---
layout: post.njk
title: "Blagging Rights: A growing wave of thievery plagues London high streets"
description: ""
date: 2025-10-03
cover: /assets/img/blagging-rights.jpg
draft: false
---





Over 29,000
repeat offenders cost the taxpayer £5 billion through ritual shoplifting, theft
and violence, a new study has unveiled. 

Reported at the
Labour Party conference alongside prisons minister Lord Timpson, research shows
that shoplifting has hit record highs since the record began in 2003. 

Furthermore, it
shows no signs of slowing down. 

530,643
offences have been recorded by police over the past year up to March 2025. 

Representing a
19.5 per cent increase on the previous year. 

In a statement
made by Mayor of London, Sadiq Khan, he claims funding cuts and the effective
“decriminalisation” of shoplifting under the former Conservative Government has
led to a resurgence of low-level offences. 

The mayor
bragged about the notable decline in violent London crime under his
supervision, however, admitted to a rise in lower-level offences. 

“Shops don’t
report it because the police won’t turn up, and if they do, people will be let
off with a slap on the wrist” he said. 

Speaking with a
Detective in the Metropolitan Police, “it’s a massive problem for all of
London” he said. 

He proceeded to
describe how his overstretched colleagues would be dealing with “around 20
cases of shoplifting a week” and the commonality of a thief entering “a Boots”
and stealing thousands of pounds worth of goods, undeterred. 

When asked
about the reasoning behind shoplifting, he replied “desperation, money… it’s
selfish regardless”. 

It’s not just
Boots that is being targeted. 

As reported by
the ONS earlier this year, countless retail groups have stated their concern by
the growth in organised crime, claiming gangs were “hitting store after store”.


Contrarily,
evidence suggests that it is not only the organised criminal retail groups
should be concerned by but the casual opportunist. 

“It happens
every 2-3 working days” said Ishmael Conteh, a Security Guard at TK Max in in
the city of London. 

Conteh
described how only a few days ago, a homeless gentleman wondered into the store
and was apprehended, attempting to steal women’s underwear. 

“They’re just
looking to see what they can get away with” he added. 

Regardless of
motive, this remains to be a victimless crime as stated by British Retailers
Association director, Tom Ironside. 

According to
research conducted by the association, shoplifting costs retailers and
customers £2.2 billion a year. 

A staggering
figure which ultimately begs the question.

Is the
government doing enough to combat the “epidemic of street theft”, as stated by
Home Secretary Yvette Cooper in February at the unveiling of the Crime and
Policing Bill? 

In response to
the ONS statistics, Cooper pledged to rebuild local policing, claiming that
more than 500 town centres would be receiving extra patrols in addition to
3,000 more neighbourhood officers and police community officers by spring 2026.


So far, UK high
streets have seen few visible results from this proposal as thievery continues
to grow.

Time will tell
if the Home Secretary has bitten off more than she can chew.
